The galaxy is divided into an 8 X 8 quadrant grid, and each quadrant
is further divided into an 8 x 8 sector grid.

You will be assigned a starting point somewhere in the galaxy to begin
a tour of duty as commander of the starship _Enterprise_
Your mission:
  to seek out and destroy the fleet of Klingon warships which are
  menacing the United Federation of Planets.

You have the following commands available to you as Captain of the Starship
Enterprise:

Warp Engine Control
  Course is in a circular numerical vector            4  3  2
  arrangement as shown. Integer and real               . . .
  values may be used. (Thus course 1.5 is               ...
  half-way between 1 and 2.                         5 ---*--- 1
                                                        ...
  Values may approach 9.0, which itself is             . . .
  equivalent to 1.0.                                  6  7  8

  One warp factor is the size of one quadrant.        COURSE
  Therefore, to get from quadrant 6,5 to 5,5
  you would use course 3, warp factor 1.

Short Range Sensor Scan
  Shows you a scan of your present quadrant.

  Symbology on your sensor screen is as follows:
    <*> = Your starship's position
    +K+ = Klingon battlecruiser
    >!< = Federation starbase (Refuel/Repair/Re-Arm here)
     *  = Star

  A condensed 'Status Report' will also be presented.

Long Range Sensor Scan
  Shows conditions in space for one quadrant on each side of the Enterprise
  (which is in the middle of the scan). The scan is coded in the form \###\
  where the units digit is the number of stars, the tens digit is the number
  of starbases, and the hundreds digit is the number of Klingons.

  Example - 207 = 2 Klingons, No Starbases, & 7 stars.

Phaser Control
  Allows you to destroy the Klingon Battle Cruisers by zapping them with
  suitably large units of energy to deplete their shield power. (Remember,
  Klingons have phasers, too!)

Photon Torpedo Control
  Torpedo course is the same  as used in warp engine control. If you hit
  the Klingon vessel, he is destroyed and cannot fire back at you. If you
  miss, you are subject to the phaser fire of all other Klingons in the
  quadrant.

Shield Control
  Defines the number of energy units to be assigned to the shields. Energy
  is taken from total ship's energy. Note that the status display total
  energy includes shield energy.

Damage Control
  Gives the state of repair of all devices. Where a negative
  'State of Repair' shows that the device is temporarily damaged.

Cumulative Galactic Record
    This option shows computer memory of the results of all previous
    short and long range sensor scans.

Status Report
    This option shows the number of Klingons, stardates, and starbases
    remaining in the game.

Photon Torpedo Calculator
    Which gives directions and distance from Enterprise to all Klingons
    in your quadrant.

Starbase Calculator
    This option gives direction and distance to any starbase in your
    quadrant.

Navigation Calculator
    This option allows you to enter coordinates for direction/distance
    calculations.

Save Game
    Save current game to a slot [0-9]

Load Saved Game
    Load a previously saved game from a slot [0-9]

Help
    This screen of instructions and explanations.

Resign Commission
    Quit current game and possibly start a new one.